doc/www/source/community.rst, before:

Community
=========

The community page gives you access to the different information on the
members of the Par4All community, the different ways to join the members
of the community and the Par4All support team, as well as our job
opportunities.


Members
-------

Par4All is currently supported by different organizations:

- `SILKAN <http://www.silkan.com>`_ for the industrial support and
  development,

- `MINES ParisTech <http://cri.mines-paristech.fr>`_ for the underlying
  technology (PIPS),

- `Institut TÉLÉCOM/TÉLÉCOM Bretagne/HPCAS
  <http://departements.telecom-bretagne.eu/info>`_ for technological
  contribution.


Support
-------

There is no longer official support of Par4All by SILKAN.

- IRC : For interactive discussions and support, there is a ``#par4all``
  IRC channel on FreeNode (if you are unfamiliar with IRC you can begin by
  looking at http://freenode.net for more information).

- More specific discussions on PIPS are done on the ``#pips`` IRC channel
  on FreeNode.

- For other aspects of Par4All such as research, the following website
  http://pips4u.org has other collaborative communication tools.

- LinkedIn : There is also a Par4All group on LinkedIn.

Many Par4All developers use the xchat IRC client and Android AndChat.


Research Collaborative Projects
-------------------------------

Par4All is currently partially funded by different projects.


Current projects
................

- `European ARTEMIS <http://www.artemis.eu>`_ `SMECY project (2010-2013)
  <http://www.smecy.eu>`_

- `French System@TIC research cluster
  <http://www.systematic-paris-region.org>`_ `SIMILAN project (2011-2013)
  <http://www.systematic-paris-region.org/fr/projets/similan>`_

- `French NSF (ANR) <http://www.agence-nationale-recherche.fr>`_ `MediaGPU
  project (2010-2013) <http://picoforge.int-evry.fr/projects/mediagpu>`_

- `French System@TIC research cluster
  <http://www.systematic-paris-region.org>`_ `OpenGPU project (2010-2012)
  <http://opengpu.net>`_

- `French NSF (ANR) <http://www.agence-nationale-recherche.fr>`_ `FREIA
  project (2008-2012) <http://freia.enstb.org>`_


Older projects
..............

- `European ARTEMIS <http://www.artemis.eu>`_ `SCALOPES project
  (2009-2011) <http://www.scalopes.eu/>`_

- `French Images and Networks research cluster
  <http://www.images-et-reseaux.com>`_ `TransMedi@ project (2008-2010)
  <http://hpcas.enstb.org/transmedia>`_


Jobs
----

**This section is mostly obsolete but may be a source for other jobs or
internships...**


Different positions may be available in the Par4All community

Some jobs and internships are offered by the Par4All community.  These
positions are related to compilation, source-to-source compilers,
parallelism, optimization and program transformations, manycores, GPU
(CUDA and OpenCL), operating systems, parallel applications, scientific
computing, graphics visualization, analytics, financial computing,
embedding systems…

If you are highly skilled in these areas or very motivated by these
subjects and you are ready to incorporate a team that blends high-end
academics with bleeding-edge entrepreneurs, send your résumé to jobs
(at)silkan (dot)com since SILKAN is in a massive hiring phase.


Internships
...........

**This section is mostly obsolete but may be a source for other jobs or
internships...**

There are many internships in compilation, program
transformation. parallelization, optimization, GPU, SIMD, hardware
accelerators, scientific computing... in France (Paris & Montpellier), USA
(Los Altos) & Canada (Montréal). There are so many things to do that you
have only a small (old) sample here.  Contact us if you are interested in
any of these subjects.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   jobs/adding-matlaboctavescilab-language-to-a-source-to-source-compiler
   jobs/optimized-program-generation-with-static-and-dynamic-analysis-support
   jobs/coupling-a-pattern-matching-language-to-a-source-to-source-compiler
   jobs/multi-target-program-transformations
   jobs/semantics-editor-for-a-source-to-source-program-transformation-infrastructure-with-eclipse
   jobs/complexity-based-nonparallelization
   jobs/fortran-to-opencl-parallelization

..
  # Some Emacs stuff:
  ### Local Variables:
  ### mode: rst,flyspell
  ### ispell-local-dictionary: "american"
  ### End:

Commit message:

Migrate forum WWW page to Sphinx
Former-commit-id: 4c36a674f342bf12d227e847ec8efe9a7015fd23

doc/www/source/community.rst, after:

Community
=========

The community page gives you access to the different information on the
members of the Par4All community, the different ways to join the members
of the community and the Par4All support team, as well as our job
opportunities.


Members
-------

Par4All is currently supported by different organizations:

- `SILKAN <http://www.silkan.com>`_ for the industrial support and
  development,

- `MINES ParisTech <http://cri.mines-paristech.fr>`_ for the underlying
  technology (PIPS),

- `Institut TÉLÉCOM/TÉLÉCOM Bretagne/HPCAS
  <http://departements.telecom-bretagne.eu/info>`_ for technological
  contribution.


Support
-------

There is no longer official support of Par4All by SILKAN.

- IRC : For interactive discussions and support, there is a ``#par4all``
  IRC channel on FreeNode (if you are unfamiliar with IRC you can begin by
  looking at http://freenode.net for more information).

- More specific discussions on PIPS are done on the ``#pips`` IRC channel
  on FreeNode.

- For other aspects of Par4All such as research, the following website
  http://pips4u.org has other collaborative communication tools.

- LinkedIn : There is also a Par4All group on LinkedIn.

- There is an `old forum for Par4All
  <https://par4all.zendesk.com/forums>`_.

Many Par4All developers use the xchat IRC client and Android AndChat.


Research Collaborative Projects
-------------------------------

Par4All is currently partially funded by different projects.


Current projects
................

- `European ARTEMIS <http://www.artemis.eu>`_ `SMECY project (2010-2013)
  <http://www.smecy.eu>`_

- `French System@TIC research cluster
  <http://www.systematic-paris-region.org>`_ `SIMILAN project (2011-2013)
  <http://www.systematic-paris-region.org/fr/projets/similan>`_

- `French NSF (ANR) <http://www.agence-nationale-recherche.fr>`_ `MediaGPU
  project (2010-2013) <http://picoforge.int-evry.fr/projects/mediagpu>`_

- `French System@TIC research cluster
  <http://www.systematic-paris-region.org>`_ `OpenGPU project (2010-2012)
  <http://opengpu.net>`_

- `French NSF (ANR) <http://www.agence-nationale-recherche.fr>`_ `FREIA
  project (2008-2012) <http://freia.enstb.org>`_


Older projects
..............

- `European ARTEMIS <http://www.artemis.eu>`_ `SCALOPES project
  (2009-2011) <http://www.scalopes.eu/>`_

- `French Images and Networks research cluster
  <http://www.images-et-reseaux.com>`_ `TransMedi@ project (2008-2010)
  <http://hpcas.enstb.org/transmedia>`_


Jobs
----

**This section is mostly obsolete but may be a source for other jobs or
internships...**


Different positions may be available in the Par4All community

Some jobs and internships are offered by the Par4All community.  These
positions are related to compilation, source-to-source compilers,
parallelism, optimization and program transformations, manycores, GPU
(CUDA and OpenCL), operating systems, parallel applications, scientific
computing, graphics visualization, analytics, financial computing,
embedding systems…

If you are highly skilled in these areas or very motivated by these
subjects and you are ready to incorporate a team that blends high-end
academics with bleeding-edge entrepreneurs, send your résumé to jobs
(at)silkan (dot)com since SILKAN is in a massive hiring phase.


Internships
...........

**This section is mostly obsolete but may be a source for other jobs or
internships...**

There are many internships in compilation, program
transformation. parallelization, optimization, GPU, SIMD, hardware
accelerators, scientific computing... in France (Paris & Montpellier), USA
(Los Altos) & Canada (Montréal). There are so many things to do that you
have only a small (old) sample here.  Contact us if you are interested in
any of these subjects.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   jobs/adding-matlaboctavescilab-language-to-a-source-to-source-compiler
   jobs/optimized-program-generation-with-static-and-dynamic-analysis-support
   jobs/coupling-a-pattern-matching-language-to-a-source-to-source-compiler
   jobs/multi-target-program-transformations
   jobs/semantics-editor-for-a-source-to-source-program-transformation-infrastructure-with-eclipse
   jobs/complexity-based-nonparallelization
   jobs/fortran-to-opencl-parallelization

..
  # Some Emacs stuff:
  ### Local Variables:
  ### mode: rst,flyspell
  ### ispell-local-dictionary: "american"
  ### End:
